Allah created the heavens and earth
and determined therein its [creatures'] sustenance
He created in the heavens and earth
everything we need to live in peace
until Allah inherits the earth and whoever is on it.
Earth's lungs are its forests,
its oceans,
and its rivers.
A balance
that earth's been built upon for billions of years
Then man came.
Then
man came.
We destroyed crops and animals.
We lit the flames of war,
destroyed
displaced.
We oppressed one another.
We spared nothing,
no human and no animal.
We spread corruption on earth
until it complained to its Creator.
Some people die of hunger,
and others of eating too much.
Many are forced to flee
so a handful can live in luxury.
Destruction
Collapse
Corruption and injustice
But
do not despair of Allah's spirit.
Man
has a choice.
Just as there is bad,
there is good.
In the face of corruption
stands benevolence.
With hardship must
come ease.
We sent people to the moon,
and defeated deadly diseases.
We built skyscrapers,
We've soared between earth and sky.
We erased illiteracy
in many parts of the world.
We've invented,
risen,
and built.
And this is just the beginning of the journey,
for the journey to excellence is long.
We'll stumble,
only to stand back up.
We can overcome
a mountain of difficulties.
We must populate and develop the earth.
Is the reward for good [anything] but good?
"Khawater 11"
"Everyone Was Created For Something"
Every one has a talent.
Allah gave all humans a talent or more,
but they differ.
The secret is to know your talent
and build on it.
In this episode, we collaborated with
the creative Mr. Ahmad Al-Assad,
a man who dedicates his life
to promoting the idea of talents
and discovering youth's talents.
Summarize the definition of a talent.
Very briefly?
Yes
Anything...
No, briefly!
I just started.
I want it summarized in one letter.
A talent is simply a natural behavior
I enjoy and I excel at it compared to others.
We're going to do some hidden camera scenes
to find out people's talents,
some of the talents.
The principled person.
I don't know if we'll find them
Why the pessimism?
I don't know
Is it hard?
It's hard
because people may be principled
but they don't want to spread them
and think, "What do I have to do with it?"
Basically it's someone who doesn't stay silent
if they see something wrong.
Exactly
What are we going to do?
We'll do the following:
We're going to enter a supermarket
and I'll pretend like I'm on the phone
and while I'm on the phone,
when someone passes by me,
I'll open a juice bottle and drink from it
and say, "No one cares,
even if someone sees me, they won't say anything."
"Even if I open half the juice bottles no one cares.
No one cares in the country right now,
even if I drink all the juice,
no one will say anything.
Most people ignored,
a lot of people ignored.
They saw and walked on.
Yes, and some people looked
but thought, "what do I have to do with this?"
If I drink all the juice here, no one will say anything.
Trust me, no one cares.
No one can see me, I'll drink what I want,
and put it back and it's like nothing happened.
Okay, bye.
What?
Are you not going to pay for these things?
Uh...Yeah what's the problem?
Anything bad you do will only hurt you,
I'm serious.
Honestly, it only costs 5 pounds, or ten.
Which the workers will have to pay.
No, the company will.
This supermarket makes millions
so it doesn't matter if I drink something.
They're unjust anyways,
their prices are so high.
Everyone's responsible for what they do
and will be held accountable.
Why do others matter to you?
What do you mean?
Why do you care about companies?
What goes around comes around.
Sorry?
What goes around comes around,
so what you do to others
will be done to you.
You're right.
Why did you teach him a lesson
instead of ignoring?
You can't ignore it every time you something wrong.
Were you always like this?
I'm a teacher.
A teacher
I'm used to making people pay attention to what they do,
not just the students,
so maybe the career...
The principled person talent,
where do they fit?
In judicial positions,
police,
law,
all the fundamental fields,
as teachers.
Basically a principled person should be in jobs
where it's difficult to monitor them all the time.
This is fundamental to the rise of the Arab
and Islamic world today.
We call upon schools
to start spreading the idea of
talent tests from middle school.
We shouldn't wait until youth graduate from
university and then tell them what their talent is.
There are 34 different talents that one can have.
34 talents
Exactly, and each person has
at least one or more talents.
So a personality test is necessary.
If it isn't offered in schools,
you can find it on the Internet.
Anyone can go online and do the test.
It'll show your top five talents
and the careers that match these talents.
If your talent is communication
and interacting with people
and you enjoy talking to people
you shouldn't work as an accountant.
Just you and the computer screen,
sitting in an office with numbers.
And the opposite is also true.
If you're good with numbers
and you enjoy systematic work
and math and you have an engineering mind,
you shouldn't work as a sales person.
And so on.
Each talent has matching jobs.
People always say they want to reach innovation.
The fastest and best way to reach innovation,
which is extraordinary productivity,
is by taking advantage of my talent
and building on it with knowledge
and skill and this is how I reach innovation.
Give us a new talent.
This next talent is one of the best talents ever,
a talent I consider that of prophets.
It can be a virtue or a vice.
The ability to persuade people.
Communication
and eloquence
Okay
How will we embody this?
By getting a strange and abstract painting
and we'll bring four judges
and contestants,
who will have 90 seconds to convince you
that this is most beautiful painting in the world.
And you will evaluate them, form a score of ten.
Okay
The painting is unique
and different than any other painting you've seen.
It's colors are bright and pleasant.
It attracts you eye to every color.
The spilling paint mixes all the colors
so the yellow, green and blue
gives you a new kind of painting
instead of a boring painting.
Some people were comfortable speaking
and others started making stuff up.
As listeners, we know who is or isn't persuasive.
Even if they try to imitate others.
What's great about this talent is that
you can't really imitate others.
You can't imitate other's emotions.
Statistically, 13% are talented in communication.
In front of people?
Yes
You're one in ten.
So a small percentage.
Very small.
It's not the prettiest painting in the world
but the idea us that it shows...
a specific idea
in this painting.
What's the idea?
The idea
You'll get there.
Every one looks at their own lives through
their own perspective.
Before you buy a painting,
you'll think of it with your heart.
When you look at a painting,
look at it with your emotions.
The colors give tranquility.
Every one has a color that represents them.
Why not picture the person you love in this painting,
and they're crying inside?
They can work as lawyers,
at radio stations, teachers, coaches,
several fields, but when you look at a lawyer,
show host, or actor
you can tell whether they're good or not.
If they're good, then they likely have this talent.
Parents, fathers and mothers,
please, please, there's no reason to force
our children to go into fields they don't want,
fields they're not talented at.
It's very important for parents to support
their children in choosing fields that suit them,
not us, parents.
One of the secrets behid the success of the society
in Medina, at the time of the prophet (PBUH)
is that he put every person in the right place
based on their talent.
This is clear
in the way he dealt with people.
He didn't force someone who isn't talented
at something to do it.
For example,
Khalid ibn al-Walid
is known for what?
He was a genius at war and planning for war
and leading armies.
When he became a Muslim and went to
the Prophet (PBUH), did he tell him
to sit for two years and memorize the Qur'an
and learn jurisprudence?
No, this isn't his field.
Immediately after Khalid ibn al-Walid became Muslim
where did the Prophet (PBUH) put him?
In the army.
And he lead companions who converted to Islam before him.
This is why we don't hear hadiths narrated
by Khalid ibn al-Walid.
How many hadiths did you hear narrated by him?
There almost aren't any.
Why?
Because this is his focus.
His talent is leading armies
and because his talent was invested,
he played a major role in conquests
in the Levant and Iraq and other places.
Today, we're searching for a very important talent.
A talent that gives hope,
The talent of positivity.
They have an ability to look at something negative
and turn it into something positive.
What's the first word that comes to mind when
you look at this photo?
Simplicity of life
Palestine
They look happy even if they don't have much.
Strange
I don't know
There's poverty and depression.
I don't see that.
Poor people
Homeless people
Poverty
Miserable people
Poverty, marginalization
May Allah help them
Poverty
Poverty, why?
Because they don't look clean and their clothing.
Simplicity, maybe.
Why?
Maybe because they're dressed simply
and they're smiling.
Why didn't you see poverty and misery?
Maybe it depends on your approach to life.
If you're positive and always look at
the full half of the cup.
Did you ever hear of Hassan ibn Thabet in battle?
No.
Hassan Ibn Thabet's power is poetry.
Poetry!
So the Prophet (PBUH) didn't put him in jihad
or asked him to lead armies.
He was in charge of speaking.
He was spokesperson of Medina, Islam and Muslims.
His talent in poetry was invested.
You'll find that the Prophet (PBUH)
invested each companion,
which is why one man of them
was worth a thousand men.
How?
By being placed in a field they are talented at.
This is one of the basics.
It's impossible for one man to be with a thousand
if they were put in a field that doesn't match
their nature, talent, and abilities.
This is a secret to how Medina,
a community of a few thousands,
reached Andalusia and China
and excelled in science, economics,
jurisprudence, war
and excelled in all areas of life
during h=the height of Islamic civilization.
Each individual was in the field they excel at.
Tahrir Square
I'm in a hurry, can I get in?
He stopped me first.
Can I take it?
Yes
Are you sure?
If you want it, it's okay.
Get in.
Sure?
Yeah, go ahead.
The guy came first.
Listen, if you want to get in
we can go together.
It's okay.
Sure?
Thank you
Why did you do that?
He was in a hurry and might have
had an emergency, he has to take it first.
So you thought he could need it more.
Yeah, I'm serious.
So you were flexible and not bothered?
Yeah, why would I be bothered?
He wasn't forced to.
No, not at all.
Egypt is full of taxis and you were in a hurry.
Others might get angry.
Yeah, not everyone's like this.
This is the flexibility talent.
Thank you
Flexible Mahmoud
Flexible Mr. Mahmoud
Where are you headed?
By the police station
The one in Giza?
I'm in a hurry, can I get to Masr El-Gedida?
Can you drop me and then him?
I'm in a hurry, can I go?
What do you think?
Go ahead
Are you sure?
No, it's okay.
I don't want to bother you.
Don't worry about it.
Sure?
Go ahead
How come you're so nice?
I'm sorry
You're very flexible.
Thank you
Can I get in?
She stopped me first.
Where are you going?
What?
I need to go to Gold Island.
No, it's not on the way
and she stopped me.
Can I get in?
He'll drop me first and then you
Sorry?
He'll drop me first and you can come later.
I'm in a hurry and need to take a taxi now.
You can take another taxi.
I know but I'm in a rush.
I'm invited for breakfast with my friends.
You'll find another taxi.
You could do that too.
But I'm comfortable with him.
Wow!
Can I?
No
There are so many taxis, please.
No one has all the talents.
It's not bad if you don't have all the talents
we covered in the episode.
Every human was created for something.
If a person has one talent, they won't have another.
For example, the flexibility talent,
I don't have it at all.
If I were put in the taxi situation,
there's no way I would anyone take it.
I look at it as my right.
I came first, there's a system.
Some people might say this isn't flexibility
it's weakness and giving up your right,
but no, not necessarily.
Subhanallah, every talent plays a role.
What's the difference between flexibility
and insisting on what's yours?
Because in the end it's her right to get in
because she came first.
Subhnallah, everyone was created for something.
A flexible person doesn't look at the situation
through right and wrong but empathizes with others.
If you need something, I can feel with you,
I'm flexible and don't get upset.
The flexibility talent is basically
that the person isn't upset about their plans changing.
Flexibility requires giving up your right.
They don't consider it giving up.
They see it as helping.
The person with this talent doesn't feel like
they're giving up something, but that they're helping.
So, we can't say that others who demanded
their rights are necessarily wrong
because in the end it's their right.
They have another talent.
They might be strict.
Yes there's a talent called the commander.
The commander insists on their opinion or belief.
This is also beneficial at times.
Exactly
How will we discover the talent of Mr. Ideas?
We'll ask a simple question:
Give us the largest number of products
that can be made using wood chips.
There are no conditions,
just give us ideas.
Some people might only get one or two ideas.
They'll stop.
It can be used in weddings.
Good, that's one.
You have one minute,
give me the biggest number of products,
get creative.
Weddings...
Anything
That's the only think I know.
What else?
That's it.
Wood chips...
I don't know.
You can light it and make a fire.
Give me 20.
Give you 20?
20 ideas
20 ideas...
That's it
That's it?
Other people said twp or three
and the highest was eight.
Eight ideas!
Eight ideas and they were good.
If someone cleans the sidewalk and
throws it on it.
One, what else.
You can paint it yellow, green and red
and other colors
and use it in weddings.
Nice! Two
You can make art pieces of a bride and groom.
Three.
Three, what else?
When we want to sacrifice, we can throw it on the blood.
Why?
To cover the blood.
Nice, four
It can be stuffed in wood.
Excellent! More, that's five.
You're starting to get creative.
Give me more than five.
We can make an Egyptian flag
Six
Seven
And a sign like this with a picture of a flag or something
Eight
This is where Mr. Ahmad Al-Assad's specialty
comes in.
Whoever wants to benefit from Mr. Ahmad
and his experience and expertise,
give me.
The website is
All that?
and for those who want to try a free personality test
can add "/test"
Thank you for coming with us this episode.
We brought you from Jordan to Egypt.
I'm honored and glad.
Thank you very much.
When the Prophet peace be upon him,
said,"If the Final Hour comes
while you have a
palm-cutting in your hands
and it is possible to plant it before
the Hour comes, you should plant it."
Translated by Dima Kamal Masri